# Articles

## Published Elsewhere

- [Two feds on Reactjs, Keeping Delphic on the Cutting Edge]
- [SVG 101: Anatomy](https://herodigital.com/perspectives/svg-101-anatomy/) In a previous life I knew SVG through illustration. Now, as a developer, I wanted to know the details - to dive into the guts of the thing. This is a fairly through post on the basic element types that make up an SVG.
- [SVG 101: Setting up](https://herodigital.com/perspectives/svg-101-setting-up/) Optimizing, embedding, and a dive into SVG's viewport / viewbox. Note that the date on the site is just a reflection of when this was published, it sat in the company 'todo' folder for a couple of years. Even made it through an acquisition and onto the new company's blog! Fancy that!
- [.htaccess: a FED guide to redirects]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) This dive into apache came about to try and help alleviate a bottleneck in our pipeline at work. Server configuration is not exactly the most popular subject in the office.
- [Redux: attempting a simple overview](https://codepen.io/ijmccallum/post/redux) This was part of my pitch to use some kind of state management for a complex product listing front end. The idea was turned down which at least gave me the experience of building complex state without a tool like Redux, I would be curious to know how much time we could have saved had we used it!
- [Regular expressions in Javascript, why so painful!?!](https://codepen.io/ijmccallum/post/regular-expressions-in-javascript) Sometime I'll just pick a subject and dive in. I don't use regular expressions very often, but for the times I do it's nice to know what's going on!
- [CSS Layouts (part 1): The Past - Everything else]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) Floats, tables, and also display table. It's interesting to see the influence I felt from the community against display table, I've done a 180 since then, display table is magic.
- [CSS Layouts (part 2): The Present - Flexbox]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) A dig into flexbox in my own words. I'm pretty sure writing this article was the 'click' point for my understanding of flexbox, hard to imagine life without it now!
- [CSS Layouts (part 3): The Future - Grids]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) CSS Grids and also the viewport units. These only started sneaking into our work towards the end of 2017, and even then it's still experimental.
- [Service Workers]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) A technical introduction to service workers. Although on the public company blog I really wrote it with the rest of the team in mind in the hope that service workers would start to play a bigger part in our projects.
- [Google Analytics for Front End Developers]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) We are frequently asked to paste in that snippet of ga js, and occasionally other bits to go with it. I wanted to dig deeper into how it all worked. The title says 'for feds' but it's just another way of saying 'a bit technical'.
- [Sass (part 1): Architecture]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) At work all our sass was organized the same way. This was my exploration of other strategies. Note the age of this article, things have evolved since then.
- [Sass (part 2): tips and Tricks]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) Essentially a miscellaneous bucket for small sass tips, from those we use at work to those that were found while writing the previous article.
- [CSS in 3D]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) A fun jaunt into the 3d world. Probably written in the hope that it might inspire some of our projects to take advantage of the more interesting capabilities of css.
- [Chrome Dev tools]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) I read through the docs, noted the important parts, condensed it, and put it down in writing. Note that the chrome dev tools team have been quite prolific - they have added a lot more since I wrote this!
- [Git Commands cheat sheet]() (to be retrieved, original site&company was bought out) A quick run through of git for those who already have a little experience (while writing this I only had a little experience with git, this was my way of digging into it. This was also during the time that Delphic started switching over from SVN